We're almost done with the section, now I want to come back to something I mentioned earlier. In the transaction.
item widget, in the
transaction_item.dart file,
we have this strange key thing and this strange syntax here
after our constructor.
What's this all about?
Before I dive into this strange after the constructor syntax, let's understand what keys are. Every widget
in Flutter can have a key.
Now thus far, all the widgets we created manually don't accept a key argument here in their constructor
and the reason for this is that
most of your widgets don't need a key, especially stateless widgets, so you don't have to accept this
argument.
But there are certain scenarios where a key is a must have and I want to show you an example.
Our transaction items here actually do accept a key but for now, we're not using it and I will show you
how to use it in a second.
So our transaction items here render these cards and these are the cards we're using here with our
ListView.builder.
Now let's say our transaction item would not be a stateless widget but a stateful widget, so I'll convert it
to a stateful widget with the help of the refactoring tool here and then here in the transaction item
state,
I'll use initState to set some dynamic data for this widget which is created,
so for every list item separately, when this list item is added. Let's say we want to change the background
color of our CircleAvatar and every new list item should get a random color there. For that here in
initState,
I'll create a new const, availableColors, const and not final because I'll reassign some values which
will not change at runtime and there, the choices are colors red, colors black and maybe colors blue.
So these are the three and maybe colors purple,
these are the three colors I want to use as a background for the CircleAvatar,
the four colors I want to use as a background for my CircleAvatar.
Now in this state here, I'll of course add a new property of type color which is the chosen bg, background
color and I want to assign this here in initState.
So here I have set bgColor equal to available colors and now I want to select a random, that
should be available and now I want to select a random element there.
So not hardcode 0 or 1 but calculate a random index number.
For that, we can use a package provided by Flutter, we can just add random here and then add an import
here at the top, not Flutter Dart,
excuse me, the dart:math package. So you add this at the very top because as I mentioned earlier, the convention
is to first have your Dart imports, then your third-party package imports and then your custom file imports.
So we add dart:math
and that gives us a random class which we can instantiate and on that random object we then have, we
can call next int to generate a new integer number and we enter the max number we want to generate
and it always starts at 0.
So here, the maximum is four and the maximum is excluded,
so it will generate a number which is either 0, 1, 2 or 3 and that is then what we use as an integer
to get a random color.
So now every list item receives its new random color.
Side note, you don't wrap background color here in initState into set state because initState
is called before build is executed.
So build will take into account any changes you made here and therefore, you shouldn't call set state in
here but just update any properties just like this because build runs after that anyways.
So here, I'm setting my background color and now every transaction receives a new background color.
So now with the background color stored, we need to assign this in the CircleAvatar.
There we can set background color to bgColor
and now it will use our randomly generated background color.
So let's save this and go back and let's add a couple of transactions now, like test, 11 which
happened today let's say. Okay I generated a purple background color, Test2 with this amount
here, happened maybe yesterday and I have a blue one and now watch what happens when I delete the first,
the purple item. So I'm deleting Test with $11 and a purple background,
so once I'm done deleting this, what we should see is Test2 with $22 and the blue background,
right. The purple background should be gone because I'm deleting the whole element.
If I click the trash bin here though, you see Test2 is kept and the value is correct but the
background color is still the old one, it's still the purple one
but Test2 had a blue background. So the one with the purple background should have been deleted and
the one with the blue background should be the only remaining element.
Now the data is correct,
Test1 was deleted with an amount of $11 but somehow, we took the wrong list element,
we took the wrong background color.
So what's happening here?